---
layout: post
title: "A new home"
date: 2013-07-01 11:40
comments: false
categories: meta
---
After several weeks of mucking about with new designs, colour schemes, and
whatnot, I decided I'd had enough, and was going to give Octopress a try, and
stop this new site project if I didn't like it. I liked it.

The motivation to come up with a new site came from two things:

* [Matt Gemmel's post on designing for readers][0]
* Spammers on my Movable Type installation being a royal pain in the arse, and
MT itself being a pain to update, customise, write code for, etc.

<!-- more -->
I set out to have a completely static site / blog, with my thinking very much
along [these lines][1] and the ease to publish locally, using any editor, very
much appealing to my laziness. However, I settled for the [original thesis][2]
which enables me to marry my fondness for simplicity with [Matt's good advice][0].

I didn't want to use any server-side code, or even code I wasn't comfortable
with - ideally, any code at all, really. However, I was really fed up with
Foundation, Bootstrap, and the likes, as I'm not a frontend guy and had
no desire to become one. After a few aborted attempts at writing my own, I
decided my time would be better spent on other things, and went on to try
Octopress. I had used Jekyll in the past, and even contributed a couple of
patches to it, so I figured Octopress wouldn't kill me.

What I found out was that as well as not killing me, the default theme was
almost what I had in mind - I wouldn't make it as fancy as I find it, but I
didn't feel compelled to rip it apart. After changing the fonts and slightly
tweaking the default configuration to my liking, I decided that was it, and
deployed.

I haven't written this much for public consumption in a **long** time, so bear
with me, as it feels like a fresh start - which is why I didn't import my posts
from the old blog, and gave this one a different URL. In any case, the old blog
will [linger around][3]. Your regular scheduling will resume shortly.

Hopefully.

[0]: http://mattgemmell.com/2013/05/22/designing-blogs-for-readers/ "Designing blogs for readers"
[1]: http://slopjong.de/words.txt "Words really are magic"
[2]: http://justinjackson.ca/words.html "Words are magic"
[3]: http://pedrofigueiredo.org/blog "SUPPER::new"
